Continuing with the reload animation.
Let's create an anim notify that will be used as a recharge end marker.
But before that, let's create a base class for notify, from which all notify will inherit.
We do this in order to move the notification logic to our base class notify.
We call the class STUAnimNotify. It will be used as a base.
And create anim notify when the recharge is finished. We can immediately inherit this class from STUAnimNotify.
We call it STUReloadFinishedAnimNotify.
Create and go to C ++
Open the EquipFinishedAnimNotify class and let's move all the functionality to the base class.
Go to STUAnimNotify. Paste in the code.
We also transfer the macro with the delegate signature.
We change the parent class. Let's replace it with the created STUAnimNotify.
Let's also replace the header file.
From the .cpp file, we also transfer the function to the base class. We made the base class for notify so as not to duplicate the
functionality associated with the delegate and now both of our notify can notify clients who
have subscribed to the OnNotified delegate. Go to the weapon component class.
And in a similar way, as we did when changing weapons, we need to lock all actions when reloading.
Add a new flag, call it ReloadAnimInProgress. Add a callback function OnReloadFinished.
And also add the CanReload function.
Let's copy the header file of our new notify. Let's add it to the weapon component.
Let's start with the OnReloadFinished function. We can just copy the OnEquipFinished function.
Later we will subscribe this function to ReloadAnimNotify. Replace EquipAnimInProgress
in the copied function with ReloadAnimInProgress. When calling the reload function, when we start the animation,
we must set the reload flag to true and also before that we can check:
if we cannot reload, then we exit the function. We will create CanRelaod in a minute. Add additional conditions
to the CanFire and CanEquip functions . We cannot shoot, we cannot change weapons
when we are reloading. The CanReload function will be the same as the CanFire function, so we can
just copy it and rename it. We also need to check that CurrentWeapon is not a null pointer.
We will see this in the next lesson when we add clip changers to weapons.
In fact, the functions of CanFire, CanEquip, CanReload are almost the same. In general, we can combine them into one
and call them something unified: CanDoAction. But this does not bother us in general, so let's leave it that way for now.
Let's go to the InitAnimations function and we just need to add callbacks to all notify that are in the reload animations.
The code for finding the anim notify we need will be exactly the same,
so in order not to duplicate it, we can wrap this code in our own template function.
Let's see how you can do this. Let's assume we already have such a function and let's get a
pointer to EquipFinishedAnimNotify using this function. We pass in it a pointer to EquipAnimMontage,
and as a template parameter we specify the class of interest to us anim notify.
And if we find anim notify, then we subscribe the necessary function to it.
Let's go to the weapon component header file and create a templated function.
If you don't remember what templates in C ++ are, I recommend you brush up on it.
But we use them throughout the course. For example: SpawnActor, TArray, TSubclassOf.
We will have a template with one parameter. This will be the anim notify class type.
It will return a pointer to this type. We call it FindNotifyByClass and we can specify UAnimSequenceBase as a parameter.
It is in this animation class that the anim notifies array is defined.
Copy the search code for the anim notify we need.
Paste it into the template and edit it in the places we need.
Replace EquipANimMontage with Animation.
We do this in two places.
Next, let's rename EquipFinishedAnimNotify to simply AnimNotify.
Cast should be done to the type T of interest to us.
If Cast was successful, then we return AnimNotify.
And if, after going through the entire array, we did not find the notify we need, then we return nullptr.
Our template is ready, go back to the .cpp file. In the case of the anim notify of changing weapons
, nothing has changed for us. We are now using this templated function.
And to animate the reload, we need to go through the WeaponData array.
We can copy the EquipFinishedAnimNotify code and paste it into the loop body.
Change EquipFinishedAnimNotify to ReloadFinishedAnimNotify.
We change the template parameter, we want to find notify of type STUReloadFinishedAnimNotify.
And as a parameter, we pass the animation from the current OneWeaponData structure.
If we did not find ReloadFinishedAnimNotify for the current animation,
then we will continue and continue to search other animations.
and if found, then add the OnReloadFinished function, in theory, you can rename FindNotifyByClass to FindFirstNotifyByClass,
because we return the very first anim notify, and there may be several of the same type for this animation.
So we have a compilation error. Let's see what happened.
We forgot to add return nullptr if the animation pointer is nullptr.
Let's add notify to the recharge montage anim.
Right-click on the track and add ReloadFinishedAnimNotify
for the launcher and do the same for the rifle.
We launch the project.
We reload the weapon. If we try to shoot or change weapons, then we will not succeed while the animation is running.
That's all in this lesson. In the next, we will finalize the changes in ammunition when reloading.